# 1. Packages
A namespace that organizes classes and interfaces;
package name starts with the website address, backwards.
## Create a package
>* 1. package name in the top
```java
package ug.joshh.animal;
```
>* 2. the file is stored in the properiate folder
```
ug.jush.animal// note: his website is joshh.ug
```
## Using Packages
>* canonical name
```java
ug.joshh.animal.Dog g = new ug.joshh.animal.Dog();
```
>* import statements
```java
import ug.jush.animal.Dog
Dog g = new Dog();
```
## Default Package
>* Any Java class without a package name at the top are part of the "default"
>* Only suitable for very small program
>* you cannot import code from the default packages

Therefore, your Java files should generally start with an explicit package declaration.

# 2. JAR Files (IntelliJ)
“zip” all the files together by creating a JAR file. This single .jar file will contain all your .class files, along with some other additional information.
>* 1.) Go to File → Project Structure → Artifacts → JAR → “From modules with dependencies”
>* 2.) Click OK a couple of times
>* 3.) Click Build → Build Artifacts (this will create a JAR file in a folder called “Artifacts”)
>* 4.) Distribute this JAR file to other Java programmers, who can now import it into IntelliJ (or otherwise)
Jar file doesn't keep your file safe

# 3. Access Control
## prvate
>* Private Only code from the given class can access private members. It is truly private from everything else, as subclasses, packages, and other external classes cannot access private members. 
>* subclass will extends all the members from the upper class, but has no control to the privates ones
## protected
>* Protected members are protected from the “outside” world, so classes within the same package and subclasses can access these members, but the rest of the world (e.g. classes external to the package or non-subclasses) cannot! TL;DR: subtypes might need it, but subtype clients will not

## Public
>* This keyword opens up the access to everyone! This is generally what clients of the package can rely on to use, and once deployed, the public members’ signatures should not change. It’s like a promise and contract to people using this public code that it will always be accessible to them.

## Package private
```java
int size; // no protected or other keywords
```
allow access that within the same package

# 4. Access Control Subtleties
## Access is based only on static type
It is important to note that for interfaces, the default access for its methods is actually public, and not package-private.
## Access control at teh top level

# 5. Object Methods
>* Being an object, they hava all these methods
```java
String toString()
boolean	equals(Object obj)
Class<?>getClass()
int hashCode()
```
## ```.equals()``` Vs ```==```
### ```==```
>* compares the bits(address) in teh box
```java
public static void main(String[] args) {
	int[] x = new int[]{0, 1, 2, 3, 4};
	int[] y = new int[]{0, 1, 2, 3, 4};
	System.out.println(x == y);
}
>> False // 
```
###  ```.equals()```
>* Arrays.equal or Arrays.deepEquals for arrays.
>* .equals for classes. Requires writing a .equals method for your classes.
>> Default implementation of .equals uses == (probably not what you want).
```java
public boolean equals(Object x) {
	if (this == x) return true;
	if (x == null) return false;
	if (this.getClass() != x.getClass()) {
    	   return false;
	}
    Date that = (Date) x;
	if (this.day != that.day) {
    	   return false;
	}
	if (this.month != that.month) {
       return false;
	}
	if (this.year != that.year) {
       return false;
	}
	return true;
}
```
**Java convention is that equals must be an equivalence relation:**
>* Reflexive: ```x.equals(x)``` is true.
>* Symmetric: ```x.equals(y)``` is true if ```y.equals(x)```
>* Transitive: ```x.equals(y)``` and ```y.equals(z)``` implies ```x.equals(z).```



