# Programming cost
>* How **long** does it take to develop your programs?
>* How **easy** is it to read, modify, and maintain your code?
### Packages.
>* Good: Organizing, making things package private
>* Bad: Specific
### Static type checking.
>* Good: Checks for errors early , reads more like a story, speed up runtime
>* Bad: Not too flexible, (casting) more verbose code
### Inheritance.
>* Good: Reuse of code
>* Bad: “Is a”, the path of debugging gets annoying, can’t instantiate, implement every method of an interface
## Encapsulation
### Module: 
A set of methods that work together as a whole to perform some task or set of related tasks.
### Encapsulated: 
A module is said to be encapsulated if its implementation is completely hidden, and it can be accessed only through a **documented interface**.
## APIs
An API(Application Programming Interface) of an ADT is the list of constructors and methods and a short description of each.
>* API consists of syntactic and semantic specification.
>>* Compiler verifies that syntax is met.
>>* AKA, everything specified in the API is present.
>* Tests help verify that semantics are correct.
>>* AKA everything actually works the way it should.
>>* Semantic specification usually written out in English (possibly including usage examples). 
>>* Mathematically precise formal specifications are somewhat possible but not widespread.
## ADTs
ADT's (Abstract Data Structures) are high-level types that are defined by their behaviors, not their implementations.

## Delegation vs Extension:
>* Extension tends to be used when you know what is going on in the parent class. In other words, you know how the methods are implemented. Additionally, with extension, you are basically saying that the class you are extending from acts similarly to the one that is doing the extending. >* On the other hand, Delegation is when you do not want to consider your current class to be a version of the class that you are pulling the method from.