# Implementation Inheritance
## Extend
>* if you want one class to be hyponym of another calss(not interface), use ```extends```
>* The ```extends``` keyword lets us keep the original functionality of SLList, while enabling us to make modifications and add additional functionality.
```java
public class RotatingSLList<Item> extends SLList<Item>
```
>* the subclass will inherits **all members** of SLList
>> all instance and static variable; all methods; all nested classes;**Constructors are not inherited**
>> private members cannot be directly accessed by subclasses
## Super
private members **cannot be directly accessed** by subclasses -> use ```super``` keywords
>* calls super class's version of removelast
```java
public class VengefulSLList<Item> extends SLList<Item> {
    SLList<Item> deletedItems;

    public VengefulSLList() {
        deletedItems = new SLList<Item>();
    }

    @Override
    public Item removeLast() {
        Item x = super.removeLast();//declare it's removeLast() from parent class
        deletedItems.addLast(x);
        return x;
    }

    /** Prints deleted items. */
    public void printLostItems() {
        deletedItems.print();
    }
}
```
## Constructors are not inherited
>* all constructors must start with a call to one of its superclass's constructors.(Should first be set up as its parents)
```java
public VengefulSLList() {
    super();//if not add suoer();java will automatically set it 
    deletedItems = new SLList<Item>();
}
```
### calling other constructor
```java
public VengefulSLList(Item x) {
    super(x); //explicit call
    deletedItems = new SLList<Item>();
}
```
>* if do not use sper() to define which superclass constructor to be called, it will call teh default one
# Object Class
Every class in Java is a descendant of the Object class, or ```extends``` the Object class. Even classes that do not have an explicit extends in their class still implicitly extend the Object class.
>* the Object class provides operations that every Object should be able to do - like``` .equals(Object obj)```, ```.hashCode()```, ```and toString()```.
>* Inteface do not inherit from object

# Encapsulation
**Encapsulation is one of the fundamental principles of object oriented programming**
## fight complexity

>*  "Design for change". This revolves around the idea that programs should be built into modular, interchangeable pieces that can be swapped around without breaking the system. 
>>* Hiding information that others don't need is another fundamental approach when managing a large system.
>>* Let object decide how things are done;
>>* Organize program around objects

>* Hierarchical abstraction
>>* create layers of abstraction


## Module and encapsulation
a module can be defined as a set of methods that work together as a whole to perform a task or set of related tasks.
>* if the implementation details of a module are kept internally hidden and the only way to interact with it is through a documented interface, then that module is said to be encapsulated
>* Even when writing the tests, you don't usually want to peer inside

# How Inheritance Breaks Encapsulation
>* if we were to define a a subclass of Dog called VerboseDog, and override its barkMany method as such:
```java
@Override
public void barkMany(int N) {
    System.out.println("As a dog, I say: ");
    for (int i = 0; i < N; i += 1) {
        bark();
	//barkmany(5);
    }
}
```
>* call .barkMany(5), it will bark 5 times
```java
public void bark() {
    System.out.println("bark");
}

public void barkMany(int N) {
    for (int i = 0; i < N; i += 1) {
        bark();
    }
}
```
>* The call to ```bark()``` will call ```barkMany(1)```, which makes a call to ```bark()```, repeating the process infinitely many times. since bark() dynamic type is vs, so it calls bark(), however, brkMany(1) daynamic type is also vd, so it calls bark(1), then infinite loop.
```java
public void bark() {
    barkMany(1);
}

public void barkMany(int N) {
    for (int i = 0; i < N; i += 1) {
        System.out.println("bark");
    }
}
```
# Type Checking adn Casting
## Dynamic selection and type checking
>* Dynamic method lookup is the process of determining the method that is executed at runtime based on the dynamic type of the object. The method that is called at runtime is determined by the run-time type, or dynamic type, of that variable.
>* In general, the compiler only allows method calls and assignments based on compile-time types.
>* An expression using the new keyword has specified compile-time type 
```java
SLList<Integer> sl = new VengefulSLList<Integer>(); // allowed, vengefulSLList is a SLList
```
>> Above, the compile-time type of the right-hand side of the expression is VengefulSLList. The compiler checks to make sure that VengefulSLList "is-a" SLList, and allows this assignment,
```java
public static Dog maxDog(Dog d1, Dog d2) { ... }
Dog largerDog = maxDog(frank, frankJr);//allowed
Poodle largerPoodle = maxDog(frank, frankJr); //does not compile! RHS has compile-time type Dog
```
>> Since the return type of maxDog is Dog, any call to maxDog will have compile-time type Dog.
>* An expression using the new keyword has specified compile-time type
>* method's compile type is equal to its declared type

## Casting
instantiation, method call ...
Java has a special syntax where you can tell the compiler that a specific expression has a specific **compile-time type(static type)**. This is called "casting". With casting, we can tell the compiler to view an expression as a different compile-time type.
>* effectively tells the compiler to ignore its type checking duties
```java
Poodle largerPoodle = (Poodle) maxDog(frank, frankJr);// turn maxDog's compile type as poodle, is poodle a poole? yes!
```
**Caution: Casting is a powerful but dangerous tool. Essentially, casting is telling the compiler not to do its type-checking duties - telling it to trust you and act the way you want it to.**
eg:
```java
Poodle frank = new Poodle("Frank", 5);
Malamute frankSr = new Malamute("Frank Sr.", 100);

Poodle largerPoodle = (Poodle) maxDog(frank, frankSr); // actually the answer should be Malamute, but it says that the output must be poodle, so runtime exception!(ClassCastException at runtime)
```
# Higher Order Functions
A function that take other functions as parameters
## Old versions of Java
>* use Interface and inheritance
```java
/** represents a function taht takes in an integer, and returns an integer */
public interface IntUnaryFunction {
    int apply(int x);
}

public class TenX implements IntUnaryFunction {
    /* Returns ten times the argument. */
    public int apply(int x) {
        return 10 * x;
    }
}

public class HoFDemo{
	public static int do_twice(IntUnaryFunction f, int x) {
    		return f.apply(f.apply(x));
}
	public static void main(String[], args){
	// IntUnaryFunction tenX = new TenX(); if not definde in println
		System.out.println(do_twice(new Tenx, 2));
	}
}
```