# Abstract Data Types Vs Actual implementation
only comes with behaviors, not any concrete ways to exhibit those behaviors. In this way, it is abstract.
# Java library
Java has certain built-in Abstract data types that you can use. These are packaged in Java Libraries.

The three most important ADTs come in the java.util library:ies

>* List(ADT): an ordered collection of items
A popular implementation is the ArrayList, LinkedList
```java
List<String> lst = new ArrayList<String>();
```
>* Set(ADT): an unordered collection of strictly unique items (no repeats)
A popular implementation is the HashSet and TreeSet
```java
Set<String> ss = new HashSet<>();
```
>* Map(ADT): a collection of key/value pairs. You access the value via the key. 
A popular implementation is the HashMap, TreeMap
```java
Map<String, Integer> counts = new HashMap<String, Integer>();
for (String t: target) {
        counts.put(s, 0);
    }
    for (String s: words) {
        if (counts.containsKey(s)) {
            counts.put(word, counts.get(s)+1);
        }
    }
    return counts;
}
```
# Interfaces and ADTs
### Interfaces
>* In the inetrface, every method should be public, so can avoid public。
>* All variables must be public static final.
>* Cannot be instantiated
>* All methods are by default abstract unless specified to be default
>* Can implement more than one interface per class
### ADTs
>* Methods can be public or private
>* Can have any types of variables
>* Cannot be instantiated
>* Methods are by default concrete unless specified to be abstract
>* Can only implement one per class
>* If inherit from an interface, it must overriden the abstract method at least one that haven't been precisely implemented in the interface

# Packages
>* Package names give a canonical name for everything. 
>* namespace that organize classes and interfaces