# Overview
## Method Overloading
>* Java allows same function name for different method, but more code to maintain that unnecessary
## Hypernyms
higher key : mammal
## Hyponym
lower key : dog
## Hyponymic Relationship
>* Define a reference typefor our hypernym
>* Specify the hyponyms
### 1. New Key Words: Interface
**Interface is a specification of what a list is able to do, not how to do it**
**the interface includes all the method signatures, but not implementations.**
```java
public interface List61B<Item> {
    public void addFirst(Item x);
    public void add Last(Item y);
    public Item getFirst();
    public Item getLast();
    public Item removeLast();
    public Item get(int i);
    public void insert(Item x, int position);
    public int size();
}
```
### 2. New Key Words:Implements
>* use implements keyworkd to tell the compiler that xxxx and xxxx are hyponyms of the hypernym
```java
public interface List61B<Item>{
	public class AList<Item> implements List61B<Item>{}
}
```
## Overriding Vs Overloading
>* if a subclass has a method with exact same signature as in the superclass, we say teh subclass overrides the method. (a term that only implement to inheritance structure with signiture)
>* methods with same name but different signitures are overloaded
### Override annotation
```java
@Override // not necessary
```
>* If not override actually, it will compile and error, prevents from typos

# Interface Inheritance
**Interface Inheritance refers to a relationship in which a subclass inherits all the methods/behaviors of the superclass.**
>* can be multi-generational
>* all sub-class are said to inherit the super-class(hypernym)
>* Interface consists of all the method signatures
# Implementation Inheritance : Default Methods
Provide code in inheritance, and the subclass will inherit it.
```java
public interface List61B<Item>{
	
	    default public void print(){
	    	for(int i = 0; i< size(); i += 1){
	    		System.out.print(get(i) = " ");
	    	}
	    	System.out.println()
	    }
}
```
>* This method is actually run inside the interface，everything that implements the List61B class can use the method
>* You can also add the default method in the class with @override, then it will call teh method in class, not in interface
## Static Type Vs Dynamic Type
>* "Compile-time type" : declaration, **never changes!**
>* "run time type" :  specified at instantiation(when using new); equal to the type of teh object being pointed at
### Dynamic Methods Selection for overridden methods
>* compile-time type X and run-time type Y
>* The if Y overrides the method, Y's method is used instead(**Dynamic method selection**)
```java
List61B<String> l1 = new SSList<String>();
//The l1 will use the method in SSList
//l1's static type is List61B.
//Since it is instantiated by SSLits constructor, so it's dynamic type is SSList
```
>* When Java runs a method that is overriden, it searches for the appropriate method signature in it's dynamic type and runs it.
**IMPORTANT: This does not work for overloaded methods!**
### Overloaded
>* When Java checks to see which method to call, it checks the static type and calls the method with the parameter of the same type.
```java
public static void peek(List61B<String> list) {
    System.out.println(list.getLast());
}
public static void peek(SLList<String> list) {
    System.out.println(list.getFirst());
}
```
```java
SLList<String> SP = new SLList<String>();//sp static type: SLList,dynamic type: SSList
List61B<String> LP = SP;// LP static type: Lists61B, dynamic type: SSList
SP.addLast("elk");
SP.addLast("are");
SP.addLast("cool");
peek(SP); // elk
peek(LP); // cool
```
**Overloading will run its static type method**
**Dynamic selection will only happens in overriden method**
### is Vs has a 
>* When you are creating these hierarchies, remember that the relationship between a subclass and a superclass should be an "is-a" relationship. AKA Cat should only implement Animal Cat is an Animal. You should not be defining them using a "has-a" relationship. Cat has-a Claw, but Cat definitely should not be implementing Claw.


### Interface Vs Implementation inheritance
>* Interface inheritance (what): Simply tells what the subclasses should be able to do.
>>* EX) all lists should be able to print themselves, how they do it is up to them.
>* Implementation inheritance (how): Tells the subclasses how they should behave.
>>* EX) Lists should print themselves exactly this way: by getting each element in order and then printing them.
>>* Can decide override or not override
>>* Danger: harder o keep track of where wth was actually used; what if two interfaces both give conflicting default methods?; overly complex code; breaks encapsulation.







